Dialogs in flutter
The dialog is a type of widget which comes on the window or the screen 
which contains any critical information or can ask for any decision. When a 
dialog box is popped up all the other functions get disabled until you close 
the dialog box or provide an answer. We use a dialog box for a different 
type of condition such as an alert notification, or simple notification in which 
different options are shown, or we can also make a dialog box that can be 
used as a tab for showing the dialog box.
Types of dialogs in a flutter
AlertDialog
Alert dialog tells the user about any condition that requires any recognition. 
The alert dialog contains an optional title and an optional list of 
actions. We have different no of actions as our requirements. Sometimes 
the content is too large compared to the screen size so for resolving this 
problem we may have to use the expanded class.
Properties:
• Title: It is always recommended to make our dialog title as short as 
possible. It will be easily understandable to the user.
• Action: It is used to show the content for what action has to 
perform.
• Content: The body of the alertDialog widget is defined by the 
content.
• Shape: It is used to define the shape of our dialog box whether it is 
circular, curved, and many more.
SimpleDialog
A simple dialog allows the user to choose from different choices. It contains 
the title which is optional and presented above the choices. We can show 
options by using the padding also. Padding is used to make a widget more 
flexible. 
Properties:
• Title: It is always recommended to make our dialog title as short as 
possible. It will be easily understandable to the user.
• Shape: It is used to define the shape of our dialog box whether it is 
circular, curve, and many more.
• backgroundcolor: It is used to set the background color of our 
dialog box.
• TextStyle: It is used to change the style of our text.
showDialog
It basically used to change the current screen of our app to show the dialog 
popup. You must call before the dialog popup. It exits the current animation 
and presents a new screen animation. We use this dialog box when we 
want to show a tab that will popup any type of dialog box, or we create a 
front tab to show the background process.
Properties:
• Builder: It returns the child instead of creating a child argument.
• Barriercolor: It defines the modal barrier color which darkens 
everything in the dialog.
• useSafeArea: It makes sure that the dialog uses the safe area of 
the screen only not overlapping the screen area.
